Previously. on The Testaments.
They let me decide.
I chose Garth.
Congratulations.
Does your Pearl Girl
always have to sit with us?
She's my friend.
I told you. I don't want to marry anyone.
I want to jump off a cliff.
I know Hulda spoke to you
and cast some aspersions
upon one of the upstanding men
in our community.
I had a cleaning with Dr. Grove.
He took my hand.
and he pressed it against his body.
And I. I didn't...
I didn't know what to do.
You need to tell the Aunts.
No. no. I can't.
- The Aunts. they'll freak out...
- They will help you.
Everyone will know!
After our talk.
she realized she was confused.
That it was her own
ill imagination at work.
She made a mistake.
Do you agree?
What's in there? You?
Even a Pearl Girl
gets her period before I do?
Please don't tell anyone.
I need you to get me outta here.
If the Aunts find out.
they'll marry me off.
- I'm done.
- There is no "done."
Blessed day. girls.
We'll get you in tip-top shape
at your appointment next week.
She's telling the truth. I'm sure of it.
I'm very sure.
"Enemies of the Lord will perish.
Like smoke. they will drift away."
- But Aunt Lydia. wh...
- "They who wait for the Lord.
shall renew their strength."
- He did things to me.
- I am so sorry that happened to you.
You're the only one I can tell.
I'm really glad you told me.
Friends. remember what
He tells us in Leviticus:
"If a man does harm.
so shall it be done to him."
So shall it be done to him.
"An eye for an eye."
An eye for an eye.
"A tooth for a tooth."
A tooth for a tooth.
"A hand for a hand."
A hand for a hand.
Gilead has a real hard-on for vengeance.
Back home. Melanie always said.
"An eye for an eye
makes the whole world blind."
But in Gilead.
they love taking
the Old Testament literally.
It seems shocking and violent at first.
But then. you start
to appreciate that style of justice
for all its possibilities...
and it starts to give you ideas.
Reckless ones.
Another season
with no match for Maddox.
Did he make a fuss?
Of course. but I assured him he'd get
the cream of next year's crop.
Though he's getting on in years.
Who knows if he'll be here.
Oh. how odd.
The Plums went home hours ago.
Praise be.
- Praise be.
- Blessed be His miracle.
Ah! Daisy!
A miracle indeed!
What a day this is.
As He blessed Leah and Ruth.
He too has saved me
from barrenness and. um...
and. um...
I got my period.
Your blessing is a blessing upon us all.
This is the Pearl Girl promise.
May it give you hope.
Trust in Him.
and more of this will follow.
Tomorrow. you'll join the Plums.
Praise be His miracle.
Congratulations!
- Blessed morning.
- Good morning. girls.
You and Daisy
seem close these days.
She's a spy.
For Aunt Lydia.
All the Pearl Girls are.
Don't forget that.
She's waiting for you to mess up
so she can rat you out.
You don't know her.
I know you've changed
ever since she's been around.
Can't that be a good thing?
Well. it's not.
I never see you.
You see me every day.
You never come over to my house anymore.
Girls.
I bring wonderful news of yesterday.
Under your pious influence.
our Daisy has been rewarded with menarche.
Blessed be the fruit.
Our Daisy chose
to leave the sinful world behind
and to join Gilead.
You girls are her family now.
so would you be so kind as to Plum her up?
My mom always told me
that purple was my power color.
I didn't know what she meant until now.
Will you do us the honor?
With God's grace.
Ow.
So sorry.
What happened to your plan?
I decided to just tell them.
Rip it off.
I couldn't hide it forever.
I told you that.
Wait. wait a minute. everyone knew?
Daisy. come with me.
I'm taking you to see the dentist.
Now?
I. I didn't think it'd be so soon.
Well. Dr. Grove had
a last-minute cancellation.
Come. No time to waste.
You'll be having
a lot of appointments now.
starting with the dentist.
- Okay.
- May I go with her?
Like you said.
she doesn't have any family here.
That is very kind of you. Agnes.
Let's go.
Agnes? Hello.
Dr. Grove.
our newly blessed Pearl Girl.
Daisy?
Ready for you now.
You're from Canada. I take it?
Uh-huh.
Their technique
for fillings is so primitive.
Tilt your head a little more
to the left for me. please.
You know. it's not very often we get
a foreign girl reaching menarche.
God must have some
great plans in store for you.
Rinse.
Spit.
You have been a bad girl.
You need to floss more.
And we're gonna keep an eye on
those old fillings.
Other than that. your teeth are just fine.
Now. we will make
another appointment for you
before next season.
so we can send you off to your husband
with a shiny set of Pearly Gates.
Until then. floss.
That's it?
Yeah.
Are you okay?
- Help!
- What is it. dear?
He tried to touch me!
He tried to touch me! Please!
Please. please. protect me!
Even though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death.
I will fear no evil.
'cause I know He is with me.
Even though I walk through
the valley of the shadows of death.
I will fear no evil
'cause I know He is with me.
Even if I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death.
I will fear no evil.
'cause I know He is with me.
Even though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death...
Daisy. we've listened to your testimony.
Coming from Toronto.
perhaps you are confused about...
No. No. I'm not confused.
It was pretty clear
when he grabbed my hand
and put it on his penis.
Pray. forgive me
for my graphic description.
but I think it is important
that I be clear.
I come from outside Gilead.
as Aunt Vidala said.
I know sin when I see it.
That is sufficient for now.
Aunt Vidala. Aunt Estee. thank you.
Daisy. would you stay a moment. please?
I'm sorry this ungodly event occurred.
Yes. Aunt Lydia.
I pray he's brought to justice.
It was fortunate that he was
so reckless as to tear your blouse.
And with witnesses.
Lust makes men reckless.
I'm choosing not
to think on it too deeply.
Instead. I thank the Lord for shining
His light on Dr. Grove's evil.
You may go.
Daisy.
I'm so sorry.
I couldn't protect you from sin.
Please find it in your heart
to forgive me for my failure.
I forgive you.
I never noticed Aunt Estee's eyes before.
So blue.
It's easy to forget.
the Aunts are human too.
Thank you.
I'm so sorry. Daisy.
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
I just told them what happened.
And they believed you?
I was pretty clear.
Hopefully. he gets what he deserves.
What?
You're not a Pearl Girl.
Hmm?
The rest of them.
they'd do anything to fit in.
But you...
don't seem to care that this
could ruin everything for you.
Everything you came here for.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Which make me wonder.
what did you come here for?
He hurt you.
- And Hulda.
- And you.
- What?
He hurt you. too. right?
Right.
Exactly.
I need to go.
I'm on cleanup tonight.
Still? But. but you're a Plum now.
Or a Green now.
I'm an experiment.
Come in.
Commander. I appreciate you coming
on such short notice.
- What a terrible business.
- Ugh.
- Thank you. Aunt Vidala. you may go.
- Perhaps I should stay?
Extra hands make for lighter work.
That won't be necessary.
Aunt Lydia and I are well-suited
to deal with this matter ourselves.
Under His eye.
I had heard rumors about Grove.
But I put it down to idle gossip.
Mm.
Alas. here we are.
Here we are.
And you say there are others
to report similar trespasses?
Two others.
I think a Salvaging is in order.
That way. your girls
get their pound of flesh.
Yes. but Grove's daughter.
Rebecca. is to be married soon.
Perhaps we can delay his fate
until after she's wed?
I would hate to see her future jeopardized
- because of her father's sins.
- Understood.
I've asked those who witnessed
the event to stay silent.
But. of course. the longer we wait.
the more likely people are to talk.
What a pity.
He was such a good dentist.
He's not usually so late.
I can't imagine
what could be keeping Becka's father.
My apologies.
Not necessary.
I... I know he's a busy man.
Have you thought about the ceremony?
What scripture recitation you might like?
Oh. well. um. I defer to your family.
Oh.
Something from Ecclesiastes.
perhaps?
The roast will surely be cold by now.
I am so sorry.
No. really. I-I-I don't mind.
Dear?
Sorry. I was. um...
held up with a work matter.
Please excuse me.
I'm. I'm not feeling my best.
If you'll excuse me too.
Honey. are you alright?
I don't really like scotch.
Don't mention I said that to your mother.
Hey... I wouldn't worry.
It was probably just some Commander
who doesn't like his veneers.
You know. uh. one time. my father
came storming into the house.
And he slammed the front door so hard.
my mother's favorite vase
fell off the table
a-and completely shattered.
She didn't know what was wrong.
so she told me to go check on him.
What was the matter?
He really needed to use the bathroom.
Mom?
What's wrong?
- Something happened at the office today.
- Richard. we have company.
He'll hear soon enough.
And I have nothing to be ashamed of.
A mentally unstable patient came in today.
Uh. uh. a Pearl Girl who became a Plum.
Daisy?
She made baseless accusations.
I never laid a hand on her.
so this is all gonna be resolved.
I've already reached out
to Commander Judd.
I-I should go.
It seems you have
much on your minds.
- My apologies...
- No. no. not at all.
Um. blessed be your evening.
- Dr. Grove.
- Son.
I told her. "Don't touch my towels
if you don't know how to fold them right."
Well. how did she
fold them wrong?
- You!
- Whoa!
- You lying slut!
- Becka!
Are you trying to ruin my life?
Or are you just crazy?
- Hey. hey! Come on. Come on.
- She's evil! I told you. she's evil!
Come on.
Sketch us! It'll last longer.
Girls! Has there been strife?
I heard raised voices.
Raised voices. Aunt Gabbana?
She's a liar. You were there.
I was. and she was... distraught.
Why are you defending her?
After something like that happens.
sometimes it's easier
to blame everyone else.
What are you saying?
Becka...
did he touch you?
What?
No.
He didn't touch anyone.
I told you. She's a liar.
She's not lying.
How do you know?
He did it...
to me.
Inside. both of you... Now!
Gossip is dangerous.
Those who do not keep a tight rein
on their tongues deceive themselves.
Let us pray.
Purge me in hyssop.
and I shall be clean: wash me...
and I shall be whiter than snow.
Create in me a clean heart. O God;
and renew a right spirit within me.
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
Did Grove hurt you?
No.
He's been hurting those girls.
Someone had to step up.
- Is he gonna be punished?
- What?
You made it up?
He's been abusing them.
Someone had to do something.
- What am I here for then?
- To do what Mayday tells you to do!
Mayday doesn't tell me to do anything
except be invisible. be a sponge.
I'm tired of being the sponge.
So you decided you knew better?
I decided I was going
to protect those girls
because no one else was gonna do it.
You know what?
They say reheated meat can be chewy.
but I think it came out just fine.
I thought it would be a pity
for it to go to waste.
Is. is yours overdone. dear?
Mm. It's fine.
Mr. Mason said
he's expecting a new shipment of beef
in the coming weeks.
I know. I know. it's expensive.
but I thought it might be nice
to have filet at the wedding.
Or-Or do you think
roasted salmon and asparagus
might be better for a summer affair?
Say something.
Is it true?
Of course not!
I didn't lay a finger on that Pearl Girl!
Don't worry. sweetheart.
I'm sure Commander Judd will see to it
that that girl is punished.
All of this will soon be behind us.
Oh. before you go to bed tonight.
I put together a few more bouquets
for you to look at.
Ooh. the sweet peas
are a very nice accent.
Becka! Stop!
Zilla? What?
Becka?
Hi.
What happened?
He can't hurt you anymore.
Becka... what did you do?
It's divine justice.
I think maybe we should
get you cleaned up... okay?
Okay.
Zilla?
Is the water warm enough?
I did God's work.
I know.
And for you.
It's a strange sound.
Like a sucking sound.
Like pulling your arm out of mud maybe.
What is?
The shears.
Hey.
Let's run away.
Tonight. before anyone can find out.
- Where would we go?
- I don't care.
I don't care. Anywhere.
We could go anywhere.
Just you and me.
Okay.
Yeah.
- Let me go get Zilla.
- Okay.
- She'll get you some clean clothes.
Agnes?
I would do anything for you.
You need help. Beck.
I'm sorry. I had to tell them.
Don't be scared. dear.
We're going to take care of you.
Your fiancé is here.
He's bringing you to a doctor.
I don't need one.
It's okay.
Come with me.
Go with him.
No.
No! No! No!
No! No! No! No!
- No! No! No! No!
- It's okay.
No! Agnes! Please!
- Agnes. don't. Don't. don't look.
- You called the Eyes?!
Of course he did.
Stop. Stop.
I really thought you were
sending her to the doctor.
Agnes! Help!
Please! Help!
Agnes. please! Help!
Agnes. please!
Don't let them take me! No! Agnes!
Agnes! Agnes! No!
No! No! Please. no!